tiproxy: add a guide to enable tiproxy using tiup (#20799)
pingcap/docs: tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md

### Create a cluster with TiProxy

The following steps describe how to deploy TiProxy when creating a new cluster.

1. Configure the TiDB instances.

    When using TiProxy, you need to configure [`graceful-wait-before-shutdown`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#graceful-wait-before-shutdown-new-in-v50) for TiDB. This value must be greater than the duration of the longest transaction of the application, which can avoid client connection interruption when the TiDB server goes offline. You can view the transaction duration through the [Transaction metrics on the TiDB monitoring dashboard](/grafana-tidb-dashboard.md#transaction). For details, see [Limitations](#limitations).

    A configuration example is as follows:

    ```yaml
    server_configs:
      tidb:
        graceful-wait-before-shutdown: 15
    ```

2. Configure the TiProxy instances.

    To ensure the high availability of TiProxy, it is recommended to deploy at least two TiProxy instances and configure a virtual IP by setting [`ha.virtual-ip`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#virtual-ip) and [`ha.interface`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#interface) to route the traffic to the available TiProxy instance.

>     Note:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Note the following:
```

>     - Select the model and number of TiProxy instances based on the load type and maximum QPS. For details, see [TiProxy Performance Test Report](/tiproxy/tiproxy-performance-test.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Select the model and number of TiProxy instances based on the workload type and maximum QPS. For details, see [TiProxy Performance Test Report](/tiproxy/tiproxy-performance-test.md).
```

>     - Since there are usually fewer TiProxy instances than TiDB server instances, the network bandwidth of TiProxy is more likely to become a bottleneck. For example, on AWS, the baseline network bandwidth of the same series of EC2 is not proportional to the number of CPU cores. When network bandwidth becomes a bottleneck, you can split the TiProxy instance into more and smaller instances to increase QPS. For details, see [Network specifications](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ec2/latest/instancetypes/co.html#co_network).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Because there are usually fewer TiProxy instances than TiDB server instances, the network bandwidth of TiProxy is more likely to become a bottleneck. For example, on AWS, the baseline network bandwidth EC2 instances in the same series is not proportional to the number of CPU cores. When network bandwidth becomes a bottleneck, you can split the TiProxy instance into more and smaller instances to increase QPS. For details, see [Network specifications](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ec2/latest/instancetypes/co.html#co_network).
```

Reviewer: https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#since
> If you mean because, then use because instead of since. Since is ambiguous; it can refer to the passage of time. Because refers to causation or the reason for something.

>     - Since there are usually fewer TiProxy instances than TiDB server instances, the network bandwidth of TiProxy is more likely to become a bottleneck. For example, on AWS, the baseline network bandwidth of the same series of EC2 is not proportional to the number of CPU cores. When network bandwidth becomes a bottleneck, you can split the TiProxy instance into more and smaller instances to increase QPS. For details, see [Network performance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/compute-optimized-instances.html#compute-network-performance).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Because there are usually fewer TiProxy instances than TiDB server instances, the network bandwidth of TiProxy is more likely to become a bottleneck. For example, on AWS, the baseline network bandwidth of the same series of EC2 is not proportional to the number of CPU cores. When network bandwidth becomes a bottleneck, you can split the TiProxy instance into more and smaller instances to increase QPS. For details, see [Network performance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/compute-optimized-instances.html#compute-network-performance).
```

>     - It is recommended to specify the TiProxy version in the topology configuration. This will prevent TiProxy from being upgraded when you execute [`tiup cluster upgrade`](/tiup/tiup-component-cluster-upgrade.md) to upgrade the TiDB cluster, thus preventing client connections from being disconnected due to the TiProxy upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - It is recommended to specify the TiProxy version in the topology configuration file. This will prevent TiProxy from being upgraded automatically when you execute [`tiup cluster upgrade`](/tiup/tiup-component-cluster-upgrade.md) to upgrade the TiDB cluster, thus preventing client connections from being disconnected due to the TiProxy upgrade.
```

>     - It is recommended to specify the TiProxy version number in the topology configuration. This will prevent TiProxy from being upgraded when you execute [`tiup cluster upgrade`](/tiup/tiup-component-cluster-upgrade.md) to upgrade the TiDB cluster, thus preventing client connections from being disconnected due to the TiProxy upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - It is recommended to specify the TiProxy version in the topology configuration. This will prevent TiProxy from being upgraded when you execute [`tiup cluster upgrade`](/tiup/tiup-component-cluster-upgrade.md) to upgrade the TiDB cluster, thus preventing client connections from being disconnected due to the TiProxy upgrade.
```

        status_port: 3080
    ```

3. Start the cluster.

    To start the cluster using TiUP, see [TiUP documentation](/tiup/tiup-documentation-guide.md).

4. Connect to TiProxy.

    After the cluster is deployed, the TiDB server port and TiProxy port will be exposed at the same time. The client should connect to the TiProxy port instead of directly connecting to the TiDB server.

### Enable TiProxy for an existing cluster

> For clusters that do not have TiProxy deployed, you can enable TiProxy by scaling out TiProxy instances.
> 
> 1. Configure the TiProxy instances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For clusters that do not have TiProxy deployed, you can enable TiProxy by scaling out TiProxy instances.

1. Configure the TiProxy instance.
```

    Configure TiProxy in a separate topology file, such as `tiproxy.toml`:

    ```yaml
    component_versions:
      tiproxy: "v1.2.0"
    server_configs:
      tiproxy:
        ha.virtual-ip: "10.0.1.10/24"
        ha.interface: "eth0"
    tiproxy_servers:
      - host: 10.0.1.11
        deploy_dir: "/tiproxy-deploy"
        port: 6000
        status_port: 3080
      - host: 10.0.1.12
        deploy_dir: "/tiproxy-deploy"
        port: 6000
        status_port: 3080
    ```

2. Scale out TiProxy.

    Use the [`tiup cluster scale-out`](/tiup/tiup-component-cluster-scale-out.md) command to scale out the TiProxy instances. For example:

    ```shell
    tiup cluster scale-out <cluster-name> tiproxy.toml
    ```

>     When you scale out TiProxy, TiUP automatically configures a self-signed certificate [`security.session-token-signing-cert`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#session-token-signing-cert-new-in-v640) and [`security.session-token-signing-key`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#session-token-signing-key-new-in-v640) for TiDB. The certificate is used for migrating connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When you scale out TiProxy, TiUP automatically configures a self-signed certificate [`security.session-token-signing-cert`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#session-token-signing-cert-new-in-v640) and [`security.session-token-signing-key`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#session-token-signing-key-new-in-v640) for TiDB. The certificate is used for connection migration.
```

>     When you scale out TiProxy, TiUP automatically configures a self-signed certificate [`security.session-token-signing-cert`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#session-token-signing-cert-new-in-v640) and [`security.session-token-signing-key`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#session-token-signing-key-new-in-v640) for TiDB. The certificate is used for migration connections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    When you scale out TiProxy, TiUP automatically configures a self-signed certificate [`security.session-token-signing-cert`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#session-token-signing-cert-new-in-v640) and [`security.session-token-signing-key`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#session-token-signing-key-new-in-v640) for TiDB. The certificate is used for migrating connections.
```

> 3. Modify TiDB configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Modify the TiDB configurations.
```

> 3. Modify the TiDB configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Modify the TiDB configuration.
```

>    When using TiProxy, you need to configure [`graceful-wait-before-shutdown`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#graceful-wait-before-shutdown-new-in-v50) for TiDB. This value should be greater than the duration of the longest transaction of the application to avoid client connection interruption when the TiDB server goes offline. You can view the transaction duration through the [Transaction metrics on the TiDB monitoring dashboard](/grafana-tidb-dashboard.md#transaction). For details, see [TiProxy usage limitations](#limitations).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   When using TiProxy, you need to configure [`graceful-wait-before-shutdown`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#graceful-wait-before-shutdown-new-in-v50) for TiDB. This value must be greater than the duration of the longest transaction of the application to avoid client connection interruption when the TiDB server goes offline. You can view the transaction duration through the [Transaction metrics on the TiDB monitoring dashboard](/grafana-tidb-dashboard.md#transaction). For details, see [Limitations](#limitations).
```

   A configuration example is as follows:

    ```yaml
    server_configs:
      tidb:
        graceful-wait-before-shutdown: 15
    ```

4. Reload TiDB configuration.

    Because TiDB is configured with a self-signed certificate and `graceful-wait-before-shutdown`, you need to use the [`tiup cluster reload`](/tiup/tiup-component-cluster-reload.md) command to reload the configuration for them to take effect. Note that after reloading the configuration, TiDB will perform a rolling restart, and the client connection will be disconnected.

    ```shell
    tiup cluster reload <cluster-name> -R tidb
    ```

5. Connect to TiProxy.

>     After enabling TiProxy, the client should connect to the TiProxy port instead of the TiDB server port.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    After you enable TiProxy, the client should connect to the TiProxy port instead of the TiDB server port.
```
